HCIDOCS-623: Docs for OCPSTRAT-1819 [Tech Preview] BareMetal as a Service Support for OpenShift (#93601)
openshift/openshift-docs: installing/installing_bare_metal/bare-metal-using-bare-metal-as-a-service.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="bare-metal-using-bare-metal-as-a-service"]
= Using bare metal as a service
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: bare-metal-using-bmaas

toc::[]

> {product-title}'s Bare Metal as a Service (BMaaS) feature enables you to provision and manage bare-metal nodes using the Metal^3^ API. These nodes, external to the {product-title} cluster, can host workloads requiring direct hardware access, such as legacy applications or high-performance computing tasks. BMaaS provides the following capabilities:

Reviewer: Suggestion: These nodes, external to the {product-title} cluster, can host workloads which may not be suitable for containerisation or virtualisation such as applications requiring direct hardware access, high-performance computing tasks or legacy applications.

Reviewer: *-isation is me using UK/AU spelling, feel free to change to preference

> * Provisioning of bare-metal nodes, including configuration and preparation for workloads.

Reviewer: Suggestion: * Provisioning of bare-metal nodes, including initial configuration. (we want to make it clear we are not handling the workload part, our involvement ends with providing userData/networkData facilities)

Author: Fixed.

* Lifecycle management, such as power management, firmware updates, and decommissioning.

> As standalone systems, these nodes operate independently of the {product-title} cluster and support diverse workloads by integrating bare-metal resources with containerized and virtualized applications. BMaaS supports {op-system-base-full}, {op-system-first}, and Microsoft Windows on the bare-metal nodes.

Reviewer: Some clarificataions on the OS side of things:
We DO NOT support RHCOS (RHEL CoreOS) outside OpenShift masters/workers. IIUC We are happy to support Fedora CoreOS. We do support RHEL. I think there is a plan to support Windows but we haven't tested it (certainly I have not). How about CentOS/Fedora? I will clarify (likely in a slack thread I will copy you on)
Existing, RHCOS-relevant thread: https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C083P2FENTB/p1739790580460019

Reviewer: also let's stress the importance of using the correct image type:

NOTE: Please ensure that the image used is appropriate for the server architecture and boot mode and is a full disk image (not a partition image). If in doubt, virt-filesystems tool from guestfs-tools package can be used to verify the contents of the image, e.g:

$ virt-filesystems --add image.qcow2 --filesystems --long
Name       Type        VFS   Label  Size        Parent
/dev/sda2  filesystem  vfat  -      209469440   -
/dev/sda3  filesystem  xfs   boot   1006632960  -
/dev/sda4  filesystem  xfs   root   9383706624  -
$

Author: I reduced it to just RHEL, but the text implies they can add others. We can add other specific examples if you want.

> As standalone systems, these nodes operate independently of the {product-title} cluster and support diverse workloads by integrating bare-metal resources with containerized and virtualized applications. BMaaS supports {op-system-base-full}, {op-system-first}, and Microsoft Windows on the bare-metal nodes.

Author: This is incorrect.

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="bare-metal-using-bare-metal-as-a-service"]
= Using bare metal as a service
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: bare-metal-using-bmaas

toc::[]

> {product-title}'s Bare Metal as a Service (BMaaS) feature enables you to provision and manage bare-metal hosts by using the Metal^3^ API. These hosts, external to the {product-title} cluster, can run workloads that might not be suitable for containerisation or virtualisation, such as applications requiring direct hardware access, high-performance computing tasks or legacy applications. BMaaS provides the following capabilities:

Author: Sorry. I had British grandparents.

> {product-title}'s Bare Metal as a Service (BMaaS) feature enables you to provision and manage bare-metal hosts by using the Metal^3^ API. These hosts, external to the {product-title} cluster, can run workloads that might not be suitable for containerisation or virtualisation, such as applications requiring direct hardware access, high-performance computing tasks or legacy applications. BMaaS provides the following capabilities:

Author: It invokes some of the functionality like power management. I've mentioned it in there.

* Provisioning of bare-metal hosts, including initial configuration.

> * Lifecycle management, such as power management, firmware updates, and decommissioning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Lifecycle management such as power management, firmware updates, and decommissioning.
```

> As standalone systems, these nodes operate independently of the {product-title} cluster and support diverse workloads by integrating bare-metal resources with containerized and virtualized applications. BMaaS supports {op-system-base-full}, Fedora, and CentOS on the bare-metal nodes.

Reviewer: BMaaS has been tested with Red Hat Enterprise Linux, CentOS Stream 9 and Fedora Core 42. BMaaS is expected to be able to run other operating systems, however only the ones listed have been tested by Red Hat engineers.

Author: Done.

> As standalone systems, these hosts operate independently of the {product-title} cluster and support diverse workloads by integrating bare-metal resources with containerized and virtualized applications. BMaaS can run other operating systems, but only {op-system-base-full} and CentOS Stream 9 underwent testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As standalone systems, these hosts operate independently of the {product-title} cluster and support diverse workloads by integrating bare-metal resources with containerized and virtualized applications. BMaaS can run other operating systems, but only {op-system-base-full} and CentOS Stream 9 were tested.
```
Hmm, then why do we give instructions later for Fedora? Is Fedora supported by the Support team? Is CentOS? Or just RHEL?

:FeatureName: BMaaS
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
:!FeatureName:

include::modules/bmaas-prerequisites.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/bmaas-enabling-bmo-to-watch-all-namespaces.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/bmaas-setting-up-a-dedicated-namespace.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/bmo-creating-a-bmc-secret.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../installing/installing_bare_metal/ipi/ipi-install-installation-workflow.adoc#bmc-addressing_ipi-install-installation-workflow[About BMC addressing]

include::modules/bmo-creating-a-bare-metal-host-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/bmo-configuring-userdata.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

> include::modules/bmo-configuring-ignition-userdata.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer: remove for now
